# VANGUARD CASE STUDY

![alt text]

## Overview and Origin

* __What is the name of the company?__

    Vanguard
  
* __When was the company incorporated?__

     Vanguard group was founded in May of 1975 by John Bogle.

* __Who are the founders of the company?__

    The founder of Vanguard is John Bogle.

* __How did the idea for the company (or project) come about?__

    The idea for the Vanguard group (most commonly known as just Vanguard), was conceived whilst John Bogle was employed with the Wellington Management Co. Mr. Bogle became interested in index funds when he learning about the *Standard & Poors*. Bogle was eventually promoted to Chairman at Wellington, only to make an investment decision that decidely ended his role at the company. Precending this blunder he was not allowed to manage money within the company anymore. His curiousity grew from there, and he decided he wanted to make his own index fund. He found ETF's to more safe and allowed the customer to invest in the sector itself, instead of just stock in a company. Not long after Boyle would create a new type of account that he did not have to manage. It wasn't long before Bogle had created the _First Index Investment Trust_ in 1976. This was essentially the antecedent to the **Vanguard 500**.
 
* __How is the company funded? How much funding have they received?__

  The company is funded mainly by two seperate classes: Investment funds, and Admiral funds. The latter usually will have a lower cost of expense, yet the minimun investment will generally be higher than the assets put into the investment funds. Since Vanguard does not have a owner, (and is instead owned by the shareholders) the investments generated by the shareholders is equal to the amounts of fund the Vanguard group has. As of 2022 Vanguard had $8.1 trillion dollars in funding.

## Business Activities

* __What specific financial problem is the company or project trying to solve?__

    Vanguard looks to help the common investor, by introducing a much more risk adverse option, ETF's. ETF's are less risky to the investor because you are not investing in a single stock/company. ETF's are anchored in a specific market or sector; instead of choosing which stock an aspiring investor would like the most in the technology sector, you could just invest in the sector itself.

* __Who is the company's intended customer?  Is there any information about the market size of this set of customers?__

    Vanguard's targets every kind of investor, from a single individual to a corporation there is something that Vanguard can offer. The main attraction to Vanguard is their low cost plans. Vanguard offers some of the lowest fees in the market, and therefore makes the prospect of a retirement fund is significantly more palatable. Vanguard's Target Retirement Funds are a collection of ETF's that are offered by the company. The appeal to these Retirement Funds is that Vanguard makes the investing process easier by offering over ETF's instead of individual stocks. The low fees, combined with the less risky option of ETF's instead of stocks make setting up a retirement fund with the company an almost irresistable decision.

* __What solution does this company offer that their competitors do not or cannot offer? (What is the unfair advantage they utilize?)__

    With Vanguard being the second biggest invesment bank in the world, (second to Blackrock) and offering over 3,500 ETFs Vanguard offers something almost no other company can. Low Fees. Most investment firms cannot afford to set their fees as low as Vanguard, and do not offer the same kind of exposure in the different options concerning ETFs. Long term investments are the core function of the company, and Vanguard has manipulated their fees and offerings to lure prospective investors.  

* __Which technologies are they currently using, and how are they implementing them? (This may take a little bit of sleuthing–– you may want to search the company’s engineering blog or use sites like StackShare to find this information.)__

* 


## Landscape

* What domain of the financial industry is the company in?

* What have been the major trends and innovations of this domain over the last 5–10 years?

* What are the other major companies in this domain?


## Results

* What has been the business impact of this company so far?

* What are some of the core metrics that companies in this domain use to measure success? How is your company performing, based on these metrics?

* How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same domain?


## Recommendations

* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? (This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!)

* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?

* What technologies would this additional product or service utilize?

* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?


* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?

* What technologies would this additional product or service utilize?

* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?
